Come back in in this lesson we're going to look at the window object navigator.
So basically this gives us more information we can get geolocation and basically that means that we
can determine where the user is located.
So let's set that up and we're going to do a window on load.
And we're going to launch our a function called NIIT.
So let's set up that function set up a function.
So basically whenever the window loads that we want to run this function and this is one of those key
things that we do need to do because we are going to be loading a map within our page and we definitely
want the map to load ahead of time before we try to access and position it.
So within the navigator there's already options for geo location.
So if you do a console and if you do navigator or we can do console directories so that we can see all
the different pieces of what's available within the navigator.
So it's just called Navigator.
Now let me get rid of that extra and the one that we're going to look at is geo location.
So let's add that in.
So basically let's launch the page and let's open up our console and we can see that we've got our geo
location here and within the geo location we've got some information here so we can run a method called
Get current position.
And this is actually going to return back our current position our latitude and longitude and a bunch
of information.
So let me show you how to do that.
And let's set that up within our console.
So within the console directory We saw that we can get geo location and it had a method that's attached
to it called Get current position.
So if you place the one in this basically gives us the ability to call a method and basically we can
return back on the call back the data that we're returning there.
So let's pass the over into a brand new function.
We're going to call it place VAP and we're going to pull that data into our place map and this is actually
where we're going to do our Konsole directory.
So now we're passing in the data object and we're going to make use of that within this function.
And this is basically how you can actually this should be placed up.
So let's.
And it will automatically pass the parameters from current position into the function plate SMAC place
map and pass it as an argument here that we can pick it up within the function.
So it's good and try the suits go first.
Make sure received go and refresh and you see that now it's actually asking.
It wants to make sure that know your location so you can allow or block it if you block it.
Then this method won't actually work if you allow it then it's actually been able to pick up your coordinates
and your position within within the Javascript.
And then of course you can make use of these coordinates within your javascript coding so you're going
to have a lot of tude in the Londa tude and some other additional information.
So what I want you to do now is try this out for yourself.
So pause the video.
And create a window onload launch the function I NIIT and then use navigator geo location get current
position so this is camel case current position and create a function to pick up the data that's being
passed and then pick up that data and coming up I'm going to show you how we can pull back the latitude
and longitude and make use of it within Google Maps.
So that's coming up in the next.
The next lesson.
But for now just make sure that you can pull back the position you can get your latitude and longitude
where you're currently located and you're ready to use that in the next lesson we're going to be making
use of that where we're going to show you your location on Google Maps.
That's coming up.